.nh
.TH "SHELLY" "1" "Feb 2026" "Shelly CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
shelly-cloud-login - Authenticate with Shelly Cloud


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBshelly cloud login [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Authenticate with the Shelly Cloud API.

.PP
The access token is stored locally for future use.

.PP
Three authentication methods are available:
.IP "  1." 5
Browser OAuth (default):
Opens your web browser to the Shelly Cloud login page. After you log in,
the authorization code is automatically captured. This is the most secure
method as your password is never stored locally.
.IP "  2." 5
Auth Key (--key, --server):
Use the authorization key from the Shelly mobile app. Find it in:
User Settings → Authorization cloud key. You must also provide the
server URL shown with the key.
.IP "  3." 5
Email/Password (--email, --password):
Provide your Shelly Cloud email and password via flags or environment
variables (SHELLY_CLOUD_EMAIL, SHELLY_CLOUD_PASSWORD).


.SH OPTIONS
\fB--email\fP=""
	Shelly Cloud email

.PP
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for login

.PP
\fB--key\fP=""
	Authorization key from Shelly App

.PP
\fB--no-browser\fP[=false]
	Don't auto-open browser, just print the URL

.PP
\fB--password\fP=""
	Shelly Cloud password

.PP
\fB--port\fP=0
	Port for OAuth callback server (default: auto-select)

.PP
\fB--server\fP=""
	Server URL for auth key (e.g., shelly-59-eu.shelly.cloud)

.PP
\fB--timeout\fP=5m0s
	Timeout waiting for OAuth callback


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--config\fP=""
	Config file (default $HOME/.config/shelly/config.yaml)

.PP
\fB-F\fP, \fB--fields\fP[=false]
	Print available field names for use with --jq and --template

.PP
\fB-Q\fP, \fB--jq\fP=[]
	Apply jq expression to filter output (repeatable, joined with |)

.PP
\fB--log-categories\fP=""
	Filter logs by category (comma-separated: network,api,device,config,auth,plugin)

.PP
\fB--log-json\fP[=false]
	Output logs in JSON format

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	Disable colored output

.PP
\fB--no-headers\fP[=false]
	Hide table headers in output

.PP
\fB--offline\fP[=false]
	Only read from cache, error on cache miss

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP="table"
	Output format (table, json, yaml, template)

.PP
\fB--plain\fP[=false]
	Disable borders and colors (machine-readable output)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--refresh\fP[=false]
	Bypass cache and fetch fresh data from device

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go template string for output (use with -o template)

.PP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP[=0]
	Increase verbosity (-v=info, -vv=debug, -vvv=trace)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
  # OAuth browser flow (default, most secure)
  shelly cloud login

  # Browser flow without auto-opening browser
  shelly cloud login --no-browser

  # Auth key from Shelly App
  shelly cloud login --key MTZkZGM3dWlk... --server shelly-59-eu.shelly.cloud

  # Email/password login
  shelly cloud login --email user@example.com --password mypassword
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBshelly-cloud(1)\fP
