.nh
.TH "SHELLY" "1" "Dec 2025" "Shelly CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
shelly-discover-scan - Scan subnet for devices


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBshelly discover scan [subnet] [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
Scan a network subnet for Shelly devices by probing HTTP endpoints.

.PP
If no subnet is provided, attempts to detect the local network.
This method is slower than mDNS or CoIoT but works when multicast
is blocked or devices are on different VLANs.

.PP
The scan probes each IP address in the subnet range for Shelly device
HTTP endpoints. Progress is shown in real-time. Discovered devices
can be automatically registered with --register.

.PP
Use --skip-existing (enabled by default) to avoid re-registering
devices that are already in your registry.

.PP
Output is formatted as a table showing: ID, Address, Model, Generation,
Protocol, and Auth status.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for scan

.PP
\fB--register\fP[=false]
	Automatically register discovered devices

.PP
\fB--skip-existing\fP[=true]
	Skip devices already registered

.PP
\fB-t\fP, \fB--timeout\fP=2m0s
	Scan timeout


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--config\fP=""
	Config file (default $HOME/.config/shelly/config.yaml)

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	Disable colored output

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP="table"
	Output format (table, json, yaml, template)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go template string for output (use with -o template)

.PP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP[=false]
	Enable verbose output


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
  # Scan default network (auto-detect)
  shelly discover scan

  # Scan specific subnet
  shelly discover scan 192.168.1.0/24

  # Scan a /16 network (large, use longer timeout)
  shelly discover scan 10.0.0.0/16 --timeout 30m

  # Auto-register discovered devices
  shelly discover scan --register

  # Scan with custom timeout
  shelly discover scan --timeout 5m

  # Force re-register all discovered devices
  shelly discover scan --register --skip-existing=false

  # Combine flags for initial network setup
  shelly discover scan 192.168.1.0/24 --register --timeout 10m
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBshelly-discover(1)\fP


.SH HISTORY
15-Dec-2025 Auto generated by spf13/cobra
