.nh
.TH "SHELLY" "1" "Dec 2025" "Shelly CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
shelly-bthome-list - List BTHome devices


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBshelly bthome list  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
List all BTHome devices connected to a Shelly gateway.

.PP
BTHome is a Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) protocol for sensors and devices.
Shelly BLU sensors (motion, door/window, button) connect to a gateway
device that collects their readings.

.PP
Shows configured BTHomeDevice components with their current status,
signal strength (RSSI), battery level, and last update time.

.PP
Use 'shelly bthome add' to discover and pair new devices.
Use 'shelly bthome sensors' to view sensor readings.

.PP
Output is formatted as styled text by default. Use --json for
structured output suitable for scripting.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for list

.PP
\fB--json\fP[=false]
	Output as JSON


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--config\fP=""
	Config file (default $HOME/.config/shelly/config.yaml)

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	Disable colored output

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP="table"
	Output format (table, json, yaml, template)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go template string for output (use with -o template)

.PP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP[=false]
	Enable verbose output


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
  # List all BTHome devices
  shelly bthome list living-room

  # Output as JSON
  shelly bthome list living-room --json

  # Get devices with low battery
  shelly bthome list living-room --json | jq '.[] | select(.battery != null and .battery < 20)'

  # Find devices with weak signal
  shelly bthome list living-room --json | jq '.[] | select(.rssi != null and .rssi < -80)'

  # Get device addresses (MAC)
  shelly bthome list living-room --json | jq -r '.[].addr'

  # List device names and IDs
  shelly bthome list living-room --json | jq '.[] | {name, id}'

  # Short form
  shelly bthome ls living-room
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBshelly-bthome(1)\fP


.SH HISTORY
15-Dec-2025 Auto generated by spf13/cobra
