.nh
.TH "SHELLY" "1" "Feb 2026" "Shelly CLI" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
shelly-kvs-list - List KVS keys


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBshelly kvs list  [flags]\fP


.SH DESCRIPTION
List all keys stored in the device's Key-Value Storage (KVS).

.PP
KVS provides persistent storage on Gen2+ devices for scripts and user
data. Keys are strings and values can be strings, numbers, or booleans.
Data persists across reboots and firmware updates.

.PP
By default, only key names are listed. Use --values to also show
the stored values. Use --match for wildcard filtering.

.PP
Output is formatted as a table by default. Use -o json or -o yaml for
structured output suitable for scripting.


.SH OPTIONS
\fB-h\fP, \fB--help\fP[=false]
	help for list

.PP
\fB-m\fP, \fB--match\fP=""
	Pattern to match keys (supports * and ? wildcards)

.PP
\fB--values\fP[=false]
	Show values alongside keys


.SH OPTIONS INHERITED FROM PARENT COMMANDS
\fB--config\fP=""
	Config file (default $HOME/.config/shelly/config.yaml)

.PP
\fB--log-categories\fP=""
	Filter logs by category (comma-separated: network,api,device,config,auth,plugin)

.PP
\fB--log-json\fP[=false]
	Output logs in JSON format

.PP
\fB--no-color\fP[=false]
	Disable colored output

.PP
\fB--no-headers\fP[=false]
	Hide table headers in output

.PP
\fB--offline\fP[=false]
	Only read from cache, error on cache miss

.PP
\fB-o\fP, \fB--output\fP="table"
	Output format (table, json, yaml, template)

.PP
\fB--plain\fP[=false]
	Disable borders and colors (machine-readable output)

.PP
\fB-q\fP, \fB--quiet\fP[=false]
	Suppress non-essential output

.PP
\fB--refresh\fP[=false]
	Bypass cache and fetch fresh data from device

.PP
\fB--template\fP=""
	Go template string for output (use with -o template)

.PP
\fB-v\fP, \fB--verbose\fP[=0]
	Increase verbosity (-v=info, -vv=debug, -vvv=trace)


.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
  # List all keys
  shelly kvs list living-room

  # List keys with values
  shelly kvs list living-room --values

  # List keys matching a pattern
  shelly kvs list living-room --match "sensor_*"

  # Output as JSON for scripting
  shelly kvs list living-room -o json

  # Get all values as JSON
  shelly kvs list living-room --values -o json

  # Export all KVS data to backup file
  shelly kvs list living-room --values -o json > kvs-backup.json

  # Find string-type keys only
  shelly kvs list living-room --values -o json | jq '.[] | select(.type == "string")'

  # Short form
  shelly kvs ls living-room
.EE


.SH SEE ALSO
\fBshelly-kvs(1)\fP
